Ostensibly on Legion...
NARRATOR: A delusion starts
like any other idea, as an egg.
From the shell, you'd never
know anything was wrong.
It's what's inside
that matters.
You're still working for him.
-The Shadow King.
-Okay,
I'm not not working for him.
How are you real?
Whose body is that?
LENNY: I'm not sure
Farouk found his body.
I think he found mine.
:
No, no, no, no.
*
NARRATOR: Moral panic is defined
as "public anxiety or alarm
"in response
to a perceived threat
to the moral standards
of society."
The road to moral panic
has several stops.
The first is concern.
This concern, limited at first,
spreads from person
to person...
...amplified
by cultural forces...
...until rational concern
becomes irrational fear.
People come to believe
something terrible
is happening.
Something they cannot see.
That they can't control.
It has come for others.
It will come for them.
:
Witch!
Get her!
NARRATOR: Whether or not
the threat is real,
the response certainly is.
And it is often excessive.
Ask yourself:
what's more terrifying,
fear, or the frightened?
DAVID :
Amahl Farouk,
tapeworm, parasite, shit beetle.
I'm calling you out.
*
You're upset.
Use your words.
Amy.
Oh, please.
She put you in l'asile,
like a crazy person.
I was sick.
You were a joke, something
to laugh at with her friends.
David the dancing bear.
She was trying to help me,
and you killed her.
Did she?
Help?
Or did you wish horrible things
for dear sister Amy?
Terrible things.
No secrets.
Those were just thoughts.
They were...
You hated her.
You wished her dead
for calling you insane.
Her foot always on your back,
stopping you from being
who you are, what you could be.
And now, it's time
for them to pay.
Who?
Everyone.
Remove your mask.
Show them your face.
You could be beautiful.
I'm not like you.
I don't hide behind masks.
I'm tired of the boo-hoo.
Do what you want.
Take what you want.
Gods make rules.
They don't follow them.
I'm done.
You and me, we're not friends.
I'm not helping you anymore.
I'm gonna find your body,
and then I'm gonna burn it.
And if you're lucky,
that's all I'm gonna do to it.
You feel me?
Okay.
It seems I was wrong.
You're not ready
to sit with big boys.
Back to the kiddie table.
I will miss you, my friend.
But I'm sure we will
see each other again,
when I'm back in my body.
My temple.
On your mark,
get set...
...go.
DAVID:
Amy.
It's not true.
What he said.
I didn't want this.
I didn't...
:
I'm sorry.
DAVID:
Don't laugh at me.
Stop it.
Stop it!
Now!
DAVID 1:
Stop it. We can't torture him.
DAVID 2:
Why not?
DAVID 1:
Because first, it's horrible,
and second, he's just a mind.
Does he even feel pain?
SYD:
Do you want to talk about it?
Huh?
Amy?
No.
He wants you distracted,
emotional.
Farouk.
I know.
You can't let him.
What does she say about it?
Me, in the future.
I don't know,
we haven't talked about it.
Maybe you should.
Talk to her.
If you're not gonna talk to me.
That wouldn't bother you?
What?
If you talk to me?
In the future
Oh, no reason. Just...
Well, I wouldn't
want you to be jealous.
Of myself?
Why would I...
David, why would I be
jealous of myself?
No, no reason. It's...
I
Y-You're you and she's also you,
and I'm not...
It's not like
there's a handbook.
Are you physical with her?
No.
David?
See? You are jealous.
I'm not.
I just...
You're right, it's weird.
So let's...
why don't we make some...
ground rules?
Okay.
You can talk to her.
And if she needs a hug
or something...
I know it
doesn't make sense, but...
It's-it's how you feel.
Hey.
I love you.
Are you gonna say it, too?
:
Shut up.
I love you.
*
David?
-How...
-You think he is
the only one
who can outsmart the universe?
Our David?
:
He told you.
He-- he won't help.
You think I need his help?
He kills you.
In my timeline,
the race ends and you lose.
So, yes...
I think you need him.
*
Do you play craps?
Roll the bones?
Dice.
A game of chance.
Probabilité.
But it can be rigged.
You mean you can cheat?
Escheat.
That's a legal term...
which means: under the law,
the property of an individual
reverts to the state
if the individual dies
without an heir.
I don't understand.
All I'm saying is...
who writes the law?
The state.
So you see...
the game is rigged.
And, baby...
I am the state.
So even when I lose...
...I win.
You can't hurt me here.
You know that, right?
Are you sure?
But no, mon amour.
Why would I hurt you?
We are allies.
We both want the same thing--
for me to live.
Now, I know why this
is what I want.
The question is:
why is this what you want?
We need you.
We?
I need you.
To stop the world from ending.
And who will end the world?
Tiny humans with their bombs?
Or World War III?
No.
*
Stop it.
For centuries...
everyone said, "Amahl Farouk
is the villain."
Year after year,
they came-- the heroes...
with their blue eyes
and their white skin...
to kill me.
They thought by killing me
they will save the world.
And now you're telling me
that the opposite is true.
That...
the villain...
is the hero...
and the hero...
is the villain?
Oxymoron.
Maybe we're all
vill-villains.
All?
If you're the Earth,
the birds...
peace.
"When two tribes go to war...
a point is all you can score."
Frankie Goes to Hollywood.
If David doesn't help me...
...you will.
And together,
we'll rule the world.
Save the world.
From him.
Isn't it weird that
we were both inside David?
Mentally, I mean.
I know what you're doing.
What?
Shaving my armpits?
You're not Lenny.
And you're not Amy.
You're the song they play
outside a hostage crisis
to keep criminals
from thinking clearly.
I hear what you're saying.
And I agree--
we're gonna be best friends.
It's not gonna work.
None of your crazy shit.
Whatever Farouk
told you to do...
your secret plan...
it's just noise.
He raped me.
Farouk.
Over and over again.
Kept me in the basement
of his mind.
Like one of those Amish girls
snatched from the side
of the road.
But...
you know, whatever.
Um, bros before hos, right?
:
Girl power. I guess.
(Lenny snapping fingers
repeatedly)
(distorted,
whispering voices continue)
Hello?
:
Hello Hello
What do you want?
David!
Aah!
Help! Aah!
*
(distorted,
indistinct whispering)
* Dime si tu sabes
* Si has visto mi mujer
* ¿Has visto mi mujer? *
* Por la calle y allá
* ¿Dónde está mi mujer? *
(distorted,
indistinct whispering)
* Por allá y por allá
* ¿Has visto mi mujer? *
(distorted,
indistinct whispering)
* En el club
* En la disco
* ¿Has visto mi mujer? *
(distorted,
indistinct whispering)
* Oye, dime si tu sabes
* Si me has visto mi mujer
* Pelo cotro, en la orilla
* Un clavodil
* Oye tu me hablas
* Me hablas de sexo,
de amor *
* Que ninguno,
no sabe comprender... *
*
PTONOMY: I need you to listen
to me very carefully.
Am I losing my mind?
Admiral Fukyama. He's a...
Shh, shh, shh, shh, shh.
:
He sees and hears everything.
It's not safe here.
How long have you known?
Long enough. But it is not safe,
not anymore.
*
DAVID:
Did you know?
:
I'm sorry. Stay focused.
She was my sister.
I'm s-sorry. I'm sorry.
You have to stay focused.
On what?
Preventing some
maybe apocalypse?
He killed her.
Don't you understand?
He mutilated her
and turned her into...
And how do we know
Farouk can stop-stop it
if he does get his body back?
We don't.
But I know we lose without him.
You're not Syd.
Not my Syd.
I want to be.
Don't.
Okay.
I understand.
I can't.
I promised.
You should go
if you don't want to help.
-I do. I just...
-No, no.
I understand.
It's too much.
I'm asking too much.
Go.
I'll be okay.
The w-world.
Just... live.
Make good choices.
Maybe things will
turn out different.
Syd, I just...
It just feels wrong,
helping him.
I know.
I shouldn't have asked.
I'll miss you.
Could we say good
SYD:
Sometimes in a dream
you remember you've had
this dream before.
But that memory
is just part of the dream...
the dream memory of a dream.
When in truth, it's all really
happening for the first time...
again.
-Encoding perceptions.
Enter resting state.
-Shh.
PTONOMY:
Syd.
What is happening to me?
All I have are rumors, whispers.
People go
to Admiral Fukyama's pedestal
-and they don't come back.
He eats them.
VOICE:
Symptom alert. Fixating despair.
-VOICE 2: Symptom alert...
-That's not gonna happen to us.
:
Symptom alert...
-Symptom alert...
Fear of terrible things.
Kill or be killed.
-Doubt.
-Never. Dominate.
-PTONOMY: Panic.
-SYD: Angry now.
-CLARK: Terrified.
-SYD: Everything.
-Paralyzed.
-Woman up.
-Destroy.
*
Syd?
Move.
Analyzing.
Pupils dilated.
Heart rate's elevated.
Physical conflict likely.
Chance of victory?
VERMILLION 3:
Sixty-eight percent.
Cocky bitches.
VERMILLION:
Regenerating.
-Regenerating.
*
Hey.
CLARK:
We know.
No more hiding.
Take the basket off.
Show us.
Now.
*
What are you waiting for?
Kill it!
No!
What are you doing?
-Traitors.
-Working in service of
the Shadow King.
No, it's... something else.
What is it?
Insanity.
-Organism unknown.
-Institute containment
protocols.
Oh, crap.
That's a bad idea.
Stay here.
He's dying.
We can save his mind.
Take him to the mainframe.
*
Hey!
You made my friends sick.
Yeah, hey.
Hi, hi.
Can you understand me?
You picked a really shitty time
to attack us.
I'm not saying it's your fault.
I mean, it is, but...
the timing, it's-it's not good.
I'm dealing with a lot here.
With the Shadow King.
And, well, this...
this isn't helping. So...
I was hoping you could
appreciate my situation
and maybe, I don't know,
be on your way.
Go back to where you came fro--
Otherwise, I have to kill you.
Are you,
are you understanding this?
Guess not.
Remember,
I was gonna let you go.
*
NARRATOR:
So what have we learned?
That a delusion is an idea.
That an idea can be contagious.
That human beings are
pattern-seeking animals.
By which, I mean we prefer
ideas that fit a pattern.
In other words,
we don't believe what we see.
We see what we believe.
And when we are stressed
or our beliefs are challenged--
when we feel threatened--
the ideas we have
can become irrational,
one delusion
leading to another,
and another,
as the human mind struggles
to maintain its identity.
And when this occurs,
what starts as an egg
can become a monster.
*
-Shh.
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
*
MAN:
Now I get it.
This power is...
-I-- I--
-SYD: I--
I love you, David, but--
You're nuts, kiddo.
You're--
A danger no one
is ready for.
The real me.
Is an imminent threat
to our future, our safety--
Our one-way ticket to--
Utter destruction.